Project: 
Navigating the Green Book

Project Director(s):
Brian Foo

Project URL:
: http://publicdomain.nypl.org/greenbook-map/


Summary 
This project is based on a resource that was used from 1936- 1966, The Negro Motorist Green Book. This book is named after Victor Green, who was a postal worker at the time. Green documented many different safe stops for black travelers during his work travels across America. These included everything from hotels and restaurants to bars and nightclubs. This tool allowed guidance to safety and rest for people of color. 
Brian Foo is credited for assembling this project from the research of NYPL Labs and Digital Collections. Foo is both a data visualization artist and computer scientist. He creates interactive and physical exhibits of many different topic structures. His background in making DH projects has allowed him to make the interesting and efficient project Navigating the Green Book 

Design
This project was created using CSS, JavaScript, HTML and Python. These applications allow the site to be so easily maneuvered. The map works through entering a year (1947 or 1956), and two addresses (destination of departure and arrival). Once these data points are selected, the project creates a road trip/ GPS route with safe restaurants every 250 miles and lodging every 750 miles. 

Relevance
This project depicts and improves upon the accessibility of a physical item (The Green Book) which saved so many lives. The options to choose on the interactive map and before and after desegregation was passed. It shows the increase in the amount of safety hubs offered and increasing demand for these locations. This relates to the humanities through tying in the historical and ethnic studies subjects. Since many define ‘humanities’ as the study of human culture, it is clear how a map showing the before and after trend of safe places for people of color throughout the desegregation period would encompass this. 
The director of this project, Brian Foo, includes hyperlinked pages to his contact information, alternate projects and press events. 

Findings
The amount of information and data you can see from these maps is very extensive. Every location has the number of safe places and detailed information of each specific location. One major critique for this project is the cellphone version. When using and interacting with the two pieces on a cellphone, the information is layered on top of each other and covers a huge portion of the map. This makes it very difficult to see the route from the interactive map. The Heatwave Map also lags as you’re zooming in and out of the map, which makes it more difficult to understand. The maps ‘zoom in’ and ‘zoom out’ feature on the mobile devices is also very touch sensitive, which sometimes allows it to appear as though the screen is glitching or uncentered. This could be resolved through creating ‘zoom in’ and ‘zoom out’ buttons for more precise searching. The layers of information that is shown through the heavy amount of research and creativity that went into developing these maps shows the directors focus and coding ability. This project overall is very efficient and well done, even with the mobile device critiques, the information is still able to be seen and the maps are all unique and interactive. 


Credit
The sources used to pull information for this project came from Paul Beaudion, Josh Hadro, Matt Miller, Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, SC Digital Academy, and the University of South Carolina. Specific data about the locations shown and entries were found The NYPL Labs database and high-resolution images of The Negro Motorist Green Book: 1947. 
Data was also used from The Negro Travelers’ Green Book: Spring 1956 by SC Digital Academy. 


